# Iceberg

## Carlson, Albery, et al.: Climate change will drive novel cross-species viral transmission

This repo relates to this preprint: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.01.24.918755v1

The study uses species distribution models (SDMs) to predict the movement of mammal species' ranges between 2020 and 2070, predicts how these movements are likely to result in novel encounters between mammal species that currently have no overlapping ranges.

After projecting species' movements, we used a published model of intersepecific viral sharing (Albery et al., 2020: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-16153-4) to estimate how these movements are likely to alter viral sharing patterns in the future.

This repo is organised as follows:

- It takes in rasters generated by an SDM protocol run by Cory Merow, across >3000 species, first for the present day and then for four future representative concentration pathways (RCPs). This was repeated using nine different climate models, totalling 1 current prediction and 4x9 = 36 future predictions per species. 37x3000 = 111,000 rasters before our processing begins.

- For each climate model, the code in the folder `Iceberg Code/Iceberg ENM Code` will:

### For the currents:
-- Load the rasters for each species and resample them to a global Mercator projection
-- Clip them to within 1000km of their IUCN ranges and ensuring that they remain within the same continent.
-- Clip each species by their known habitat use.
-- Buffer each species' current range by its known dispersal ability, to allow us to control for their ability to move towards their future ranges.
-- write out data frames of X and Y coordinates alongside presence/absence for each of the stages of the processing pipeling.

### For the futures:

